WeatherFlow documentation (#23478)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/weatherflow.markdown

---
title: "WeatherFlow"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate your WeatherFlow tempest into Home Assistant."
ha_release: "2023.10"
ha_category: 
  - Sensor
  - Environment
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_iot_class: "Local Push"
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@natekspencer'
  - '@jeeftor'
ha_domain: weatherflow
---

This integration is a local-only WeatherFlow integration that reads weather data from all [WeatherFlow Tempest](https://weatherflow.com/tempest-weather-system/) compatible weather station on the local network.

<div class='note'>

> It possible you may see slight deviations between the values reported in Home Assistant and the values in the WeatherFlow App. This is because the WeatherFlow app takes into account both forecasts and neighboring weather stations in addition to the local data which is used in this integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may see slight deviations between the values reported in Home Assistant and the values in the WeatherFlow App. This is because the WeatherFlow app considers both forecasts and neighboring weather stations in addition to the local data used in this integration.
```

</div>

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Sensors

This integration will expose the following sensors:

- Air density
- Air pressure
- Dew point
- Feels like
- Humidity
- Illuminance
- Irradiance
- Lightning average distance
- Lightning count
- Precipitation
- Precipitation amount
- Precipitation type
- Temperature
- UV index
- Vapor pressure
- Wet bulb temperature
- Wind direction
- Wind direction average
- Wind gust
- Wind lull
- Wind speed

## Diagnostic sensors

> Additionally the following diagnostic sensors are available

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally the following diagnostic sensors are available:
```

---
title: "WeatherFlow Local"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate your WeatherFlow tempest into Home Assistant."

> ha_release: 2023.2

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ha_release: "2023.10"
```

ha_category: 
  - Sensor
ha_platforms:
 - sensor

>  - enviornment

Reviewer 3: Fix typo and move to category

ha_iot_class: "Local Polling"
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@natekspencer'
  - '@jeeftor'
ha_domain: weatherflow
---

This integration is a local-only WeatherFlow integration that reads weather data from all [WeatherFlow Tempest](https://weatherflow.com/tempest-weather-system/) compatible weather station on the local network.

<div class='note'>
It possible you may see slight deviations between the values reported in Home Assistant and the values in the WeatherFlow App. This is because the WeatherFlow app takes into account both forecasts and neighboring weather stations in addition to the local data which is used in this integration.
</div>

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Sensors

This integration will expose the following sensors:

- Air density
- Air pressure
- Dew point
- Feels like
- Humidity
- Illuminance
- Irradiance
- Lightning average distance
- Lightning count
- Precipitation
- Precipitation amount
- Precipitation type
- Temperature
- UV index
- Vapor pressure
- Wet bulb temperature
- Wind direction
- Wind direction average
- Wind gust
- Wind lull
- Wind speed

> ## Diagnostic Sensors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Diagnostic sensors
```

---

> title: "WeatherFlow Local"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "WeatherFlow"
```

description: "Instructions on how to integrate your WeatherFlow tempest into Home Assistant."
ha_release: "2023.10"
ha_category: 
  - Sensor

>   - environment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Environment
```

ha_platforms:

>  - sensor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - sensor
```

> 
>  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ha_iot_class: "Local Polling"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ha_iot_class: "Local Push"
```

Isn't this coming in via UDP broadcast?

Author: You are 1000% percent correct :)

---
title: "WeatherFlow Local"
description: "Instructions on how to integrate your WeatherFlow tempest into Home Assistant."

> ha_release: 2023.2.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2023.2
```

ha_category: 
  - Sensor
ha_platforms:
 - sensor
 - enviornment
ha_iot_class: "Local Polling"
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@natekspencer'
  - '@jeeftor'
ha_domain: weatherflow
---

> ## Overview
> 

Reviewer: No additional heading needed
```suggestion
```

> This integration is a local-only WeatherFlow integration that reads UDP data from a [WeatherFlow Tempest](https://weatherflow.com/tempest-weather-system/) compatible weather stations. It utilizes WeatherFlow's published [UDP API](https://weatherflow.github.io/Tempest/api/udp.html) to decode and present the data.

Reviewer: Removed the UDP part, that is technical and really doesn't matter to an end-user.

```suggestion
This integration is a local-only WeatherFlow integration that reads UDP data from a [WeatherFlow Tempest](https://weatherflow.com/tempest-weather-system/) compatible weather station.
```

## Installation Notes

> When you add this integration to Home Assistant it will detect and decode any valid UDP packets sent from a valid weather station. Sensors will only be created in Home Assistant once it has received a valid reading for that particular sensor type.

Reviewer: What does this even mean? Why would an end-user care about this?
Can we make this more clear, e.g., for my dad?

Reviewer 4: Agreed, I don't think the installation notes is necessary.

<div class='note'>

> It possible you will may see slight deviations between some of the values in your WeatherFlow app and Home Assistant. This only applies to sensors with calculated values, as there may be slight differences between how Home Assistant and WeatherFlow choose to calculate these values.

Reviewer: Integration sensors should not calculate values. This comment, therefore, seems indicating the integration implementation isn't correct.

Author: @natekspencer  - Can you speak towards the calculations at all - are they coming from the backing library or are they done in the integration code?

@frenck  - if I recall correctly all the calculations should be done in the backing library - not in the integration correct?

Reviewer 4: Home Assistant isn't doing the calculations. It might be more appropriate to say the reason there are differences is primarily due to the WeatherFlow app using cloud enhanced (neighbor stations/forecast/etc) data while local reports information known to the local weather station only.

---
title: "WeatherFlow"

> description: "WeatherFlow weather sensor"

Reviewer: This description differents from most others, please take a look at other integration pages how those are generally looking.

> ha_release: "0.38"

Reviewer: This seems unlikely 😉

Author: I've optimistically changed it to the next release 🤞️

ha_category: 

>   - Sensor

Reviewer: Should "Environment" be added here too?

Author: All of the items in the source PR are in `sensor.py` -  I can't seem to find the mention of `Environment` in either the HA docs or the developer docs ... but I'm happy to add it.

Reviewer: These are the categories the integration is listed on the website...

Environment:

https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/#environment

../Frenck

Author: Oh that's a hard one -> its a weather station... so maybe it should be under weather -> but we aren't doing any forecasting so maybe environment... 🤔️

ha_platforms:
 - sensor
ha_iot_class: "Local Polling"
ha_quality_scale: silver
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@natekspencer'
  - '@jeeftor'
ha_domain: weatherflow
---

> 

Reviewer: Missing:
- Introduction
- Configuration chapter on how to set this up

> ### WeatherFlow 

Reviewer: This is using a level 3 heading, but a level 2 heading is not preceding it.

The WeatherFlow integration uses the local UDP interface on a Weatherflow sensor, such as the Tempest, to discover and display weather data gathered vial the local network.

### Installation Notes

> When you add this integration it may take a few minutes for all the entities to show up. The integration will listen for WeatherFlow UDP packets over the network and decode them as they arrive. As sensor-specific packets show up the sensor entity will be created.

Reviewer: It might be a good idea to add this as a final step in the config flow, so user are aware when adding (and not afterward when they are seeking for help/debugging)/

### Minor differences in calculated readings

> WeatherFlow sensors provide direct data for some sensors, where as other sensor values are the results of calculations. This integration utilizes [PsychroLib](https://github.com/psychrometrics/psychrolib) library to generate these calculations and as such there may be some drift from what is displayed in the Tempest Mobile App.

Reviewer: - Integration should not mess with data, that is not allowed. The fact that this comment is needed, shows the integration code is violating general standards we use in Home Assistant
- Linking the library isn't needed, as it is not of use to the end-user. We should not send our users into Python code.

> # Sensors

Reviewer: Level 2 heading is the highest it should go
```suggestion
## Sensors
```

This integration will expose the following sensors:

- Air Density
- Dew Point
- Feels Like
- Humidity
- Illuminance
- Lightning Average Distance
- Lightning Count
- Precipitation Type
- Rain Amount
- Rain Rate
- Solar Radiation
- Station Pressure
- Temperature
- UV
- Vapor Pressure
- Wet Bulb Temperature
- Wind Average
- Wind Direction
- Wind Direction Average
- Wind Gust
- Wind Lull
- Wind Speed
- Wind Speed Average

> Additionally it exposes the following Diagnostic Sensors:

Reviewer: We do not need to explicitly make the difference between diagnostic and non-diagnostic sensors. That is just an UI trick and does not make them different otherwise. I suggest to merge the two lists.
